# Polygon Adjacency Determination - (20170103: Officially known as the Four Color Theorem)
Imagine you have a paper map of polygonal features in front of you; counties for instance. Now imagine you want to color the entire map using the least number of colors possible. Turns out you're poor and don't want to buy more colors than you must. The catch, any polygon of color A cannot share a line segment with another polygon of color A. Why? If adjacent polygons are the same color then they would not be visually differentiated and would appear as one polygon. 

This script determines the primary and secondary adjacencies for a polygon feature layer. Those are fancy terms I've made up to refer to what I'm doing when I'm thinking it over. Call them what you will. I'll explain the terms now. Each polygon in a feature class can have 0 to many surrounding features that share a line segment with it. Those directly adjacent polygons, to any polygon of focus, are the first level of adjacency (primary). Within the primary adjacent polygons set, each polygon may have 0 to many adjacent polygons from within the primary adjacent polygons set. Those in the primary adjacent polygons that are adjacent to other polygons in the same primary set compose the secondary adjacent polygons. Each polygon in the primary set is examined for secondary adjacency and the maximum value for all primary adjacent polygons becomes the secondary adjacency value for the original polygon feature of focus. The process steps through every polygon in the dataset and determines these things.
_____
So, this project is under development. I'm not totally sure where it is going and thus how to get there, though progress is happening for me. Someone else may have done this already, or it could be a simple mathematical calculation. I haven't found either yet but I'm also not looking super hard because that would be the end of the road for me. This project is just a personal coding exercise/challenge and explores my above idea for cartographic visualization potential and also other analytical significance. It's basically curiosity and self satisfaction.

20171003:
I spoke with a PhD mathemetician friend of mine and told him about this puzzle/problem I was playing with. I thought he would have valuable insight or know a mathematical solution to it and help me along. Within seconds of beginning to describe the problem he interrupted and identified it as the "Four Color Theorem". Here is the Wikipedia page on this matter. https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Four_color_theorem It basically says "In mathematics, the four color theorem, or the four color map theorem, states that, given any separation of a plane into contiguous regions, producing a figure called a map, no more than four colors are required to color the regions of the map so that no two adjacent regions have the same color." It turns out this problem was first formally posed in 1852. It is satisfying to know that I'm a part of a group of inquisitive minds after a solution to a simple visualization, even if it does deflate my desire to pursue my own solution; It just isn't as much fun knowing the challenge has been navigated to absoluteness.
